How People with Disabilities Use Digital Technology.
Ian, data scientist with autism.
Hello! I’m Ian.
I’m autistic.
I work for a software company three bus stops from my home.
I’m a data scientist. I enjoy my work very much.
Others find this work difficult because it’s quite technical
but for me, it’s really easy.
Except when something changes
and I don’t have enough time to figure out what changed.
Like, when I was trying to get to an online meeting
and found that the buttons on the app changed.
It was very stressful because
I was worried about being late to the meeting.
Apps that ask for permission before updating
allow me to find a suitable time and adjust to the changes.
Sometimes I press the wrong thing and everything just changes
and I don’t know how to go back.
It makes me feel like I just can’t cope.
I am trying to work, but I just can’t and I start to panic,
and then I can’t even talk anymore.
It’s very important to me when I can roll back and undo changes
that I didn’t intend or expect to happen.
It’s also really frustrating when I have to stop work
because of an error message that doesn’t tell me what the error is.
Error messages that just say “input error” are so useless.
Often it’s something really simple,
like I didn’t use the right format for the date.
Why doesn’t it say that?
I love to cook when I’m not working.
My friends love to eat what I cook because I find the best recipes!
Some cooking websites and apps are easy to use.
My favorite recipe sites list the exact ingredients
and have step-by-step instructions.
It’s easy to find the recipes using the tags and to follow them.
Unfortunately, I can’t use some recipe sites
even though they have recipes I really want to try.
Especially the ones where all sorts of videos start playing
and pop-up windows appear without me pressing anything.
I didn’t ask for this!
These are overwhelming and aren’t the recipe.
All I want is the recipe!
Or some sites use meaningless words and phrases
and don’t even bother explaining them.
I mean - what is a scant cup of brown sugar?
”Scant” could mean so many different things.
Instead of “scant” just say what you mean.
Like a cooking cup filled just below the top
or not quite a full cup.
That would be easier to understand for everyone.
You can help make technology accessible to me.
Accessibility: It’s about people.
For more information from the Web Accessibility Initiative
on how people with Disabilities use Digital Technology
visit w3.org/WAI/people